thank you great job here thank you for
coming
you see what happens when you make great
movies people love it and they love you
and happy birthday to you as well 77 77
yeah double 7 what do you do on a 77th
birthday I hop no no they got me in my
Brent to the Getty Museum I was hanging
out with the Etruscans and the Greeks
the Romans right that's a great museum
it really is and you walked around there
and do people flip when they see you
know it was like like they were there
were people leaving uh and we got in as
they were leaving perfect you know and
stumbled about mm-hm and I've always
wanted to go there I'm just fascinated
and trying to make it to Pompeii but I
haven't been there since in 1970 oh well
it hasn't changed I was there a few
years back and yeah it's pretty much the
same that's it do you got well you did
get a nice gift for your birthday you've
got great reviews for the irishman which
is this movie is based on a book called
I heard you paint houses right which is
a great phrase explain what that means
well it we're house painters but the
thing is there's only one shade right
right yeah and we also do carpentry and
this is a book that is a true story
presumably yes yeah yeah and how did you
I would imagine you get every single
mafia-related book sent to you they over
the past number of years they've been a
few they've been circling about and that
sort of thing but again this is
interesting because it was Eric Roth
gave it to Bob De Niro and jr. and I
have been trying to make a picture again
since casino right I was 1995 so it was
a long time since we hadn't worked
together and we tried to find all these
other projects remakes of the bad and
the beautiful remember the the story
about Hollywood and Kirk Douglas all
that sort of thing and finally it came
down to a situation we decided that
we're gonna make a film about an aging
hip man supposedly we're working on this
one project but it was kind of a genre
piece and I don't know how to do John
were any more in the genre that I know
goes back to 19th
forty-eight doesn't doesn't pay so the
ever gave him this book supposedly the
memoirs of a hitman so to speak
yeah and Bob came to talk to me about
the character and as he was talking
about the character he became rather
emotional about it and I saw that's
something now if we are gonna go back
into that mid year which we were
associated with and casino and
Goodfellas then this is something that
maybe we could learn a little more about
ourselves and go deeper you know
otherwise what are we doing in a sense
we're just repeating ourselves right and
so we took a chance and Steve Zaillian
came in wrote the script the book is by
Charles Brandt and by that point we did
it by that point basically no one would
finance the picture how much do you
believe the book do you believe the text
of the book I don't know if it's
necessary to believe that that actually
happened that way or who did what you
know I was interested in how it affects
the people involved especially when
they're in their 80s and they're alone
ultimately and they think back in their
lives the choices you make in life the
consequences of a life
so therefore if some of the facts aren't
quite right then it really is more about
the characters upfront in a way the rest
is just a backdrop and you could take
the gangster milieu and you can make it
politics you can make it business I
think we've actually done this we the
gangster exactly yeah exactly who said
what when where yeah oh you know of New
York mobster stories are you gonna make
one about Trump Janeiro is great and he
is in I think more like he is present in
95% of the film yes really in this one
and also this is and it's so hard to
imagine that this is your first time
working with Al Pacino well I met Alan
1970 Francis Coppola introduced me to
him and but then Al did Godfather one
then Godfather two and then he's in but
Metin is in with Sydney and he's
in with all he was like in the
stratosphere so how we're still making
Phil's my friends Bob and Harvey and a
couple of people you know so uh it was
he was not within my reach any longer
and he started working with De Palma a
lot the idea that no one's it everyone's
in your reach so what happens is that
finally we get together in this project
and Bob said that I would play Jimmy
Hoffa I said that's gonna play Jimmy
Hoffa said okay so we met without and
it's about nine years ago and we talked
to him about it
Wow yeah talk to him about it and here's
the thing I never work without before
been dying to work with him I asked Bob
what's he like to work but then Bob gave
me so concise and so and so enlightening
enlightened a reaction he's great you'll
see okay so the big thing was that half
the picture takes place when they're
younger mm-hmm by the time we got the
financing from Netflix because no one
would give us the financing the picture
so they were your last choice they were
my first choice I said what this is a
hacking budget because of the CGI
effects we were doing the Uthoff
occation right yeah and it was an
experiment the whole thing was an
experiment and because we could not
there was a certain point after we
finished the script that we could have
probably had them play younger but I
waited too long I did another film he
did another film and by the time we got
around together we were they were too
old to play young so we wound up doing
this CGI thing which was really
remarkable as purely experimental how
does it work I mean well I know
basically how it works but do they have
to do anything special the actors - no
no no I mean everything special was done
in the prep tons of preparation with ILM
and is only their faces or others is it
their bodies well no it's the bodies -
you see that's that's the issue we even
had a stunt posture man Oh
on the picture Oh like sit up you know
it sounds like the worst superhero ever
Potter no he Custer man
Gary Gary 'taken he is great I see Gary
talking the one thing without I I think
you know here the picture starts
shooting and it was a long shoot because
the the CGI is complicated each camera
has three lenses on it
and I was shooting with two cameras
sometimes we're carrying nine cameras so
it was complicated a lot of people on
the set that means and I'm short we
can't get to the actors you know okay
well these people doing at your camera
okay so we have al the first day of
shooting we're doing a scene where al is
sitting in a chair his family is with
him he's watching the election results
on TV about the Kennedys and is really
angry at the Kennedys and he gets up at
one point because we're not going to war
with these people I can't watch this
anymore he storms out and I had two
cameras on him and Rodrigo praetor's my
cameraman David waves me ad Pablo is
there he's at CGI and and Gary's the bus
yeah he's in the public helmet and Gary
Gary the posture foster go there okay
let's shoot and house doing his thing
two cameras I'm looking at the video
looking at ow and it was really good and
I said no just yeah let's let's
emphasize this bit a little more stir
one more take it's fantastic he does it
again he gets up he walks out you know I
thought it was great good I said lets
you know Rodrigo why don't we try to get
the wider shot now because the rain it
goes someone can't we can't get the what
is it and they all came up to me long
faces and they said ah that's what is it
he said he's he's supposed to be 49 I
said he's supposed to be good you know
Alves 78 yeah and he had the little dots
on his face and everything but when he
gets up he's supposed to be 49 and so I
looked at them and I said you tell him
fourteen years and I gotta go tell them
hey L we need you spring on spring up
there so they said all right I'll tell
him
okay I'm going yeah is everything okay
yeah that's great terrific I said the
only thing is you're supposed to be 49
oh god oh all right all right we're
gonna try Gary went in there get them
all set up okay ready and action
one more time and we do it and I look
around the guys and al looks up and he
says 62 seems like a fair compromise
Michael sent me in here the Irish gonna
move
[Music]
only three people in the world than one
of these and only one of them is Irish I
have one Angelo has one now you have
this is beautiful
I don't know I want to say russet sir
say it's the patate sour looks feel good
yeah no strong they made you your house
and my kid that is well it doesn't get
any better than that
how did you get Joe Pesci who famously
retired who doesn't want to do anything
other than play golf well now he denied
that he retired oh he's out denied that
yes he said he just wasn't working but
he wouldn't he he was very you know he
became reticent about the whole
situation and Bob was calling him and we
had we had we said come on Al's gonna be
in it and Bob and you and he said yeah
but it's again a gangster thing we've
done it before so this is gonna be
different but he wouldn't listen really
and then eventually eventually when
Netflix came into the picture he
accepted the calls okay and he took them
seriously
uh-huh and I listened about all those
concerns and everything else I said yes
but you haven't read it yet and believe
me when you read it and we could discuss
it further
right you know I'll read it okay and
eventually what happened was that we got
together and he it's interesting with
Joe because in a subject matter like
this in some cases a little complicated
in some cases the script is written
almost like a daily and wrote the script
of course but sometimes I layer in
voiceover and it's purely objective it
isn't fully the characters voice yet and
I kind of threw him off I think because
ultimately he has to he has to he has to
in just become that role when he has to
become that role but it has to be from
the inside not like a Brant is a
wonderful writer and he's an
investigative reporter too so there is
that essence a feeling a feeling of
somebody from the outside telling a
story it's got to come from the inside
and he had to find his way through the
his truth the street truth of that and
I'd say okay let's just read this I
don't want to read it I said you've got
to read it because at some point she's
gonna change all the lines anyways first
you gotta know first you gotta know what
the hell the scenes about I'm gonna
listen to him because he's a guy who
came up with you know what do you think
I'm funny Oh
that's the most scariest and most
clearly I'm gonna listen I was trying to
him took her long and then we finally
got it we finally worked on it with the
Steve and Brandt and and Bob and
everybody together and we even got to a
rehearsal I've seen where he's fixing
the motor you know uh-huh
and we had changed the dialogue four or
five times for that scene and somehow I
don't know how it happened but we were
in rehearsal and with an actual truck
we're doing in front of the truck and
somehow he's working out with the the
motor De Niro comes back and he goes he
says thanks a lot thanks and he shakes
his hand and DeNiro says you know he
said what's your name Gennaro says you
know Frank Sheeran and it's quiet
Bob goes what's yours and Joe just looks
at me and says were you firm and that
was the character and he had the
authority you knew that he was a man who
was very powerful he said where you from
he said you know Philadelphia this is
where you hang such and such a place a
bocce court person though they don't
play bocce there and then Joe throws in
you play bocce no no way take care of
the motor it's gonna go on you again it
was so natural yeah he came the
character yeah over a truck yeah yeah
yeah and while the Ray Romano is raised
isn't he terrific in the movie and this
guy is amazing Jim Norton plays Don
Rickles and and that was a great scene
and I you know I knew Don very well and
I feel like if he had seen that he would
be so mad at you he would be yes he'd be
furious because he was like why why
that's me what somebody had to get done
in the film and Norton that's the actual
dialogue based on certain sources
certain books that's the actual dialogue
that night of his act he said I make fun
of everyone you know and he says
Italians have not those Italians and
that's when he Joe Eagle pretended to
throw the bottle item don't shoot don't
shoot
I've heard him tell that story and it is
exactly as I imagined it it would be in
the film we had to have him in there
yeah okay well you did the right thing
likes it or not well it's great to have
you here thank you thank you so much for
coming it's always it for a Lavvy or the
movies fans has it's called the Irishmen
it's in theaters now on Netflix November
27th Marvel says everybody will be right
back hi I'm Jimmy Kimmel and this is the
Internet
I made it myself hit subscribe if you
like it